hi I'm Alex and I'm Jay we took the
computer to live in AI outs and there
are 10 things we want you to know yes
indeed
number one you get a pen and paper Alex
did you know that you get a pen and
paper if you take the key not to take
home it's not a complimentary thing but
during the test you do get a pencil a
pencil and a piece of paper did you use
it I used it just for writing did you
yeah I said I use it in reading
listening and writing
I always like to draw okay good Oh fair
enough and and they take it after each
section so it gets replaced so you can't
copy vocabulary and use it in your essay
from the reading section for example hmm
number two there is a suite of on-screen
tools is it I didn't use it that's a
shame because they're really handy
actually you can make the text bigger Oh
smaller you can change the background of
the text some people have trouble
reading on a bright white screen you can
make it off white or yellow or blue you
can take notes on the screen I didn't
use that and the best thing is you can
highlight on the screen okay yeah
actually the only thing I did was make
the text medium size that was it I did
apart from that I didn't use it but
maybe it's helpful highlight function
try it on our mock test oh it's a
life-changer use our mock test identical
to the IELTS one ha what about that
number three you can move around within
sections so when I'm in the listening
test
can I skip ahead and look at section
four yep and when I'm in the writing
test can I move between task 1 task C
yep absolutely
can you move between reading and writing
no no number four no need to count words
a legs when you take the paper-based
IELTS you have to like count every
single word or you have to multiply the
how many on average by this and it takes
about three minutes to count
- your words tell me about the blessing
of the computer-based IELTS test it
counts your word counter words
[Music]
number five there's a timer on the
screen so in the test you can't wear a
watch right and sometimes in the
paper-based test the clock is behind you
yeah in the computer test it's right in
front of you number six you don't get 10
extra minutes in listening but you don't
need it yeah there are little breaks all
throughout the listening test 30 seconds
here a minute here they have two minutes
at the end and that's more than enough
your answers go straight into the
computer so don't worry about that
yeah because on the paper-based test you
have to you get 10 minutes to transfer
from here to from the question sheet to
the answer sheet of the total pain yeah
and you need that and you do but in the
computer-based test job done number
seven all capitals no so please don't
write your essay in your task one all in
capital letters because what happens
actually
yeah it's considered a punctuation
problem oh okay yeah on the paper-based
test it's fine okay yeah and in fact
it's advised to write all in capitals if
you have terrible handwriting but that
is not the case on the computer it's the
typing so follow capitalization
convention yes
shift letter makes it big number eight
you get headphones not just handy for
the listening test you should leave them
on the whole time they can block out the
noisy people next to you I agree you're
getting to your little Zen mode by
blocking out everyone else in fact I
just I just found the computer-based
test to be far
if a concentration actually mm
headphones helped yep but the whole
thing was just more relaxing in better
yeah yep number nine no official break
what we mean by this is by official
break means that if you do need to go to
the bathroom you can't well yeah you can
but of course don't go in we
intersection yeah don't go in the
listening test oh yes absolutely the
computer doesn't stop but you can go in
the reading or in the rises but I think
they stop you leaving the room when it's
about five minutes to go so yeah so if
you need to go just hold on too much
water number ten the speaking test is
not on the computer how do they possibly
do the speaking if it's not on the
computer using a sophisticated computer
algorithm well person they use a person
just like a paper to human being a human
being and you're in a room together
having a conversation Wow
and by the way you're speaking and
you're rising is still marked by a human
even though you're taking the test on
the computer it is and I must say the
aisle to people that I've met so far
having done this test five times are all
extremely pleasant you were one once
right yeah
check out the e to language mock test
and e to language calm Alex please tell
me about the mock test that we have an e
to language yes what a lot of people
were asking us how do we do a full
computer-delivered mock test it's
actually unavailable okay so we created
one you can jump on e t-- language calm
and you can do the reading writing
listening speaking speaking one-on-one
with one of our teachers nice and the
writing is corrected by us as well yes
so you get a really good idea not just
of what your score is but we sort of
pinpoint the areas that you're weak in
and that you need to work on awesome and
how does the speaking work is
- line inia - that how is the speaking
work hello you are on your computer
using our program a program not asked
called zoom nice are you just talking to
a teacher face to face and your really
really simple the teacher will tell you
everything that you need to do your job
is just to answer the questions so we
say goodbye then the teacher gives you
your score and your feedback and it
comes through to your YouTube language
account it is super super excellent
check out eetu language calm
[Music]